---
title: "Reviving My Blog: A Fresh Start with Modern Tech"
slug: reviving-my-blog-a-fresh-start-with-modern-tech
excerpt: Reviving this blog wasn’t just about dusting off old posts—it meant embracing modern tools like Filament, ditching Laravel Nova, and moving to a sleek Hetzner + Coolify hosting setup. With a fresh start and a streamlined backend, I’m back to share insights, tips, and the occasional rant with consistency.
published_at: 2024-12-28 01:00:00
---

Well, it’s happened—I’m back! After leaving this blog to gather dust for far too long (let’s not even talk about the gap
between May 2022 and now), I decided it was time to revive it properly. And when I say revive, I mean tearing down old
walls, rebuilding with better tools, and setting things up so I actually *want* to keep this blog alive.

This isn’t just a “sorry I haven’t posted” post—it’s a tech deep dive into what’s changed, why I did it, and what’s
next. Spoiler: it involves saying goodbye to Laravel Nova, embracing Filament, and hosting with Hetzner managed through
Coolify.

---

## What Took So Long?

Life, work, and the usual chaos. But if I’m being honest, my old blog setup didn’t spark joy. It felt clunky and
outdated—hardly motivating. So, instead of half-heartedly patching it up, I decided to start fresh. A clean slate. A
blog that’s not just a platform for my thoughts but also a reflection of the tools and techniques I’m using in my work.

---

## From Laravel Nova to Filament: Why the Switch?

First things first: the admin panel. For years, I was using **Laravel Nova**, Laravel’s first-party paid admin panel. It
served me well for a while, but over time, I found myself wanting more flexibility. And let’s face it—spending money on
something that didn’t quite fit the bill anymore felt silly.

Enter **Filament**, an open-source admin panel that’s both more flexible and less restrictive. It’s not just a
replacement for Nova; it’s a significant upgrade. Filament gives me the freedom to tweak and customize every little
detail, something Nova’s rigid structure didn’t allow. Plus, it being open source means no licensing fees. More power,
less cost—it’s a no-brainer.

The switch to Filament was smooth, and the end result is a backend that makes managing this blog a breeze. Whether it’s
writing posts, organizing content, or extending functionality, everything is faster and more intuitive now.

---

## Hosting Overhaul: Hetzner and Coolify

Next up: hosting. The old setup worked, but let’s just say it wasn’t exactly optimized. When I decided to move the blog,
**Hetzner** was an easy choice. It’s reliable, affordable, and gives me the flexibility to scale without feeling like
I’m throwing money into a black hole.

But Hetzner is just the foundation. To manage deployments and keep things streamlined, I’m using **Coolify**, a
self-hosted platform that makes app management almost too easy. It’s like Docker, but without the “docker-compose config
from hell” energy. Spinning up environments and deploying updates is now something I look forward to instead of
dreading.

With Hetzner and Coolify in place, I’ve got a hosting setup that’s robust, predictable, and way less hassle than my old
solution.

---

## What’s Next?

So, what does all this mean for the blog? For starters, it means I’m back for good (no, really). Here’s what you can
expect moving forward:

### 1. **Consistent Updates**

I’m committing to regular posts. The gaps between updates are officially a thing of the past. Expect tech tips, DevOps
insights, Laravel tricks, and maybe even the occasional rant when things don’t go as planned.

### 2. **Refined Content Management**

Switching to Filament has made managing the blog backend effortless. That doesn’t directly impact the reader experience,
but trust me, it makes a huge difference on my end. Less friction means more focus on delivering quality content.

### 3. **Focus on Depth**

No gimmicks, no fluff—just well-thought-out posts that dive deep into the topics that matter to me (and hopefully to
you). This isn’t about chasing trends; it’s about sharing real-world knowledge and experiences.

---

## Lessons Learned

Bringing this blog back to life has been a rewarding process. It reminded me why I started it in the first place—to
share ideas, learn from the community, and document the tech I’m passionate about. Here are a few key takeaways from
this overhaul:

1. **Open Source Is a Game-Changer:** Filament has been a revelation. If you’re using Nova and feeling constrained, take
   a serious look at switching. The flexibility and cost savings speak for themselves.

2. **Hosting Should Be Simple:** Hetzner paired with Coolify has made deployments painless. If you’re still stuck in
   hosting purgatory, consider making the move.

3. **Consistency Wins:** A shiny new setup means nothing if you don’t use it. The real challenge is keeping the momentum
   going—and I’m ready for it.

---

## Wrapping It Up

So there you have it: a blog reborn, powered by better tools and a renewed commitment to consistency. If you’ve been
around since the early days, thanks for sticking with me. If you’re new here, welcome—I’m excited to share what’s coming
next.

This blog isn’t just back; it’s better. Stick around for posts that dig into the tech I love, the problems I’ve solved,
and the lessons I’ve learned along the way.

Cheers to a fresh start! 🚀
